---
date: 2022-01-14
category: Blog
title: "2022 will be the year of Lotus"
menuTitle: "2022 will be the year of Lotus"
description: "Lotus offers a new vision in the cryptocurrency space"
author: Mike C
position: 10
---

On July 21, 2021, the launch of Lotus started a new paradigm, in time for the summer solstice. After six months, begins a new year. A new dawn in a world ready for change. In 2022, innovation and opportunity stretches out in a vast expanse, as people around the world wake up. Lotus has arrived, to take its place in the market. 

You don't have to be a programmer to participate, or adopt or invest. Or even understand the minutia. The community is growing and overcoming challenges together. Within the first six months, Lotus has successfully updated and educated the user of their responsibility: how to use it as more than something to hold. That happened again on the solstice, December 21st, exactly six months after the launch, within the clockwork of our stars. The timing for Lotus is transparent and planned. That is the path forward.

After six months of growth post-launch, Lotus is reaching a lot of people already. It's informing a new way to looking at cryptocurrency, not as simply a way to exploit the existing money system, but as a new path entirely for business: individuals forming communities. We are nodes in that respect, making a network, and how we decide how that network is structured is what the new year will look like for everyone. It is how the new world will look like for everyone. The Lotus community is growing every day, with a focus on stability, privacy, and user experience - building from the bottom up. By design, the price is stable, appreciating slowly so the Lotus philosophy can grow too. As the pieces fall into place, that growth will be steady, relentless. It's not just about gains, or making a quick buck. Lotus is building something better. 2022 will be a big year, partially because of the technical milestones and challenges it's overcome already. That and a world that's waking up for a number of reasons. 

A 32 MB block size and two minute block times puts Lotus on par with the standard, but more importantly, it's already prepared to process over a thousand transactions per second. This is not far from even Visa's 5000 tx/s already. Lotus shares eCash's vision of scaling to TB sized blocks, and eventually it'll be able to handle +5M tx/s through massive parallelization. Difficulty went from 1378 on October 7th, to 3974 this January 14th. The Hashrate is 171GH/s now. 

Cryptocurrency is maturing, no longer in its infancy or even adolescence, but reaching a new phase as it begins to let people connect and form the organizations they want; it's moving beyond the inhibitions of early institutions like Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash. Coins like this one are more private and stable, while still being accessible. The market capitalization for crypto is over two trillion at the moment. So, after over a decade, it's time to think about the real impact that crypto can have, with stable linear growth and a design for business, not just investment. The price will rise because it's useful as a fast, cheap, and reliable commodity - not as a simple cash grab, relying on existing fiat currency. And that usefulness will make a better marketplace. The philosophy of a stable crypto is there, in black and white, in the programming itself. Lotus is useful, improving on the foundation that was established. To compliment this philosophy, Stamp and Forum are already usable and being polished. And more features are on the way, including private smart contracts with their own programming language, the Nelumbo Contract Language. There is so much to be built on top of Lotus and beyond.

Steady and relentless: At launch, Lotus had a value of 0.001 USD/XPI and climbed to 0.002 within the first six months. It's now corrected down to 0.001 USD/XPI again. The growth is designed to be stable. As whales or banks exploit that massive world-wide investment strategy of crypto user, the potential to create a stable marketplace within that is limitless. Stable growth, privacy, and usability should be the priority for any coin, app, or community in general. Funding through outputs is part of that stability, and the capacity for smart contracts is part of that privacy. The User Experience is already accessible and the features are being developed and expanded.

Before launch, the developers packed a lot into Lotus to strive to perfection and versatility (136 merged pull requests before launch). Because of that front-loading on the project, and the maintaining and refining of Lotus itself the last six months, the devs are now able to put a lot of new features into practice as well as build the overall system of Lotus with other applications. User Experience and User Interface is always key to success.

Stamp is already live, and Forum is being developed every day. As the workload for those decreases, more time can be spent manifesting a future for the Lotus community and developing its features and the other programs that support it. 

Coming soon:
- The Nelumbo Contract Language 
- An Inductive Token System
- Lotus Community Chest
- A new epoch block hash & epoch block merkle tree
- Wrapping BCH and eCash in Lotus
- Lotus on be.cash wallets
- Citizenship Cards
- Mitra Smart Contracts
- Use Coinbase Outputs to reach the stars

You don't have to be a programer to understand going forward together. The Lotus community is about information, outreach, and building an educated user-base. It's about utilizing everyones strength and providing a medium of exchange first and foremost. The new year will inform and connect people together, explaining things simply for those that are new, with a series of updates and articles, breaking down the story of Lotus, and its future. For more technical specifications, the developers themselves will provide the full account. 

The vision for 2022 is a technical vision, of course, but more than that, as the Lotus community grows, we see a network of people forming something new. Something that could have only happened now, as we move forward together. Bigger challenges are coming this year, and with that, grander opportunities for growth and development. Lotus is part of that growth and that new future. So be ready for new updates and ask any questions about the path ahead. Blockchain is simply a collection of nodes, nodes with integrity, and those nodes are forming the network.
